README.md, before:

# Fullstack Payment Integration Tutorial

A step-by-step tutorial for creating a fullstack application with Stripe payment integration. This template demonstrates how to build a complete payment flow using FastAPI for the backend and React for the frontend.

![Stripe](./stripe.png)


## Features

- 💳 Stripe Checkout integration for secure payments
- 🔒 Backend API with FastAPI
- ⚛️ Frontend UI with React and Tailwind CSS
- 📚 Detailed inline comments explaining each step
- 🚀 Deployment instructions for both frontend and backend

## Project Structure

```
fullstack-payment-app/
├── backend/               # FastAPI backend
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── api/           # API endpoints
│   │   │   ├── endpoints/ # API route handlers
│   │   │   └── api.py     # API router configuration
│   │   └── main.py        # FastAPI application entry point
│   ├── .env               # Backend environment variables
│   └── pyproject.toml     # Python dependencies
│
├── frontend/              # React frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/    # React components
│   │   ├── pages/         # Page components
│   │   └── App.tsx        # Main application component
│   ├── .env               # Frontend environment variables
│   └── package.json       # JavaScript dependencies
│
└── README.md              # Project documentation
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Node.js 14+
- Stripe account (for API keys)

## Getting Started

### Step 1: Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd fullstack-payment-app
```

### Step 2: Set up the backend

1. Navigate to the backend directory:

```bash
cd backend
```

2. Create a `.env` file with your Stripe API keys:

```
STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_your_stripe_secret_key
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_your_stripe_webhook_secret
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:5173
```

3. Start the FastAPI server:

```bash
poetry run fastapi dev app/main.py
```

The API will be available at http://localhost:8000.

### Step 3: Set up the frontend

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:

```bash
cd frontend
```

2. Create a `.env` file with your Stripe public key:

```
VITE_STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY=pk_test_your_stripe_publishable_key
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

3. Install dependencies and start the development server:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at http://localhost:5173.

## Tutorial: How the Payment Flow Works

### 1. Creating Products in Stripe

Before using this application, you need to create products and prices in your Stripe dashboard:

1. Go to [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/products)
2. Click "Add Product"
3. Fill in the product details and add a price
4. Note the Price ID (starts with `price_`) - you'll need this for testing

### 2. Backend API Endpoints

The backend provides three main endpoints:

- `GET /api/payment/products` - Retrieves products and prices from Stripe
- `POST /api/payment/create-checkout-session` - Creates a Stripe checkout session
- `POST /api/payment/webhook` - Handles Stripe webhook events

### 3. Frontend Components

The frontend consists of three main components:

- `PaymentForm` - Displays products and initiates the checkout process
- `SuccessPage` - Displayed after successful payment
- `CancelPage` - Displayed if payment is cancelled

### 4. Payment Flow

1. User selects a product and clicks "Buy Now"
2. Frontend calls the backend to create a checkout session
3. User is redirected to Stripe's hosted checkout page
4. User enters payment details and completes payment
5. Stripe redirects back to success or cancel page
6. Stripe sends a webhook event to confirm payment

## Deployment

### Backend Deployment

To deploy the backend:

```bash
cd backend
<deploy_backend dir="$(pwd)"/>
```

### Frontend Deployment

1. Update the frontend `.env` file with the deployed backend URL:

```
VITE_API_URL=https://your-deployed-backend-url
```

2. Build and deploy the frontend:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
<deploy_frontend dir="dist"/>
```

## Extending the Template

### Adding Subscription Support

To add subscription support:

1. Modify the backend to create subscription-based checkout sessions
2. Update the product data structure to include recurring prices
3. Implement subscription management endpoints

### Adding Marketplace Support

For marketplace functionality:

1. Implement Stripe Connect for onboarding sellers
2. Add commission splitting logic
3. Create seller dashboards and payment reports

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored in environment variables (never commit them to version control)
- Payment information is handled directly by Stripe (never touches your server)
- Webhooks are verified using signatures to prevent tampering

## Resources

- [Stripe Documentation](https://stripe.com/docs)
- [FastAPI Documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [React Documentation](https://reactjs.org/)

Commit message:

Implement real Stripe integration with proper environment configuration
- Replace mock Stripe responses with real API calls
- Add missing .env files with proper configuration templates
- Add environment variable validation and error handling
- Add python-dotenv dependency for backend
- Update documentation with setup instructions

Fixes the core issue where PR #3 only fixed URL construction but
the backend was still using mock data instead of real Stripe integration.

Co-Authored-By: Raimon Baudoin <info@raimonvibe.com>

README.md, after:

# Fullstack Payment Integration Tutorial

A step-by-step tutorial for creating a fullstack application with Stripe payment integration. This template demonstrates how to build a complete payment flow using FastAPI for the backend and React for the frontend.

![Stripe](./stripe.png)


## Features

- 💳 Stripe Checkout integration for secure payments
- 🔒 Backend API with FastAPI
- ⚛️ Frontend UI with React and Tailwind CSS
- 📚 Detailed inline comments explaining each step
- 🚀 Deployment instructions for both frontend and backend

## Project Structure

```
fullstack-payment-app/
├── backend/               # FastAPI backend
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── api/           # API endpoints
│   │   │   ├── endpoints/ # API route handlers
│   │   │   └── api.py     # API router configuration
│   │   └── main.py        # FastAPI application entry point
│   ├── .env               # Backend environment variables
│   └── pyproject.toml     # Python dependencies
│
├── frontend/              # React frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/    # React components
│   │   ├── pages/         # Page components
│   │   └── App.tsx        # Main application component
│   ├── .env               # Frontend environment variables
│   └── package.json       # JavaScript dependencies
│
└── README.md              # Project documentation
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Node.js 14+
- Stripe account (for API keys)

## Getting Started

### Step 1: Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd fullstack-payment-app
```

### Step 2: Set up the backend

1. Navigate to the backend directory:

```bash
cd backend
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
poetry install
```

3. Create a `.env` file with your Stripe API keys:

```
STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_your_stripe_secret_key
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_your_stripe_webhook_secret
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:5173
```

**Important**: Replace the placeholder values with your actual Stripe API keys from [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys). The application will use mock data when Stripe keys are not configured.

4. Start the FastAPI server:

```bash
poetry run fastapi dev app/main.py
```

The API will be available at http://localhost:8000.

### Step 3: Set up the frontend

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:

```bash
cd frontend
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Create a `.env` file with your Stripe public key:

```
VITE_STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY=pk_test_your_stripe_publishable_key
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

**Important**: Replace the placeholder value with your actual Stripe publishable key from [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys).

4. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at http://localhost:5173.

## Tutorial: How the Payment Flow Works

### 1. Creating Products in Stripe

Before using this application with real Stripe integration, you need to create products and prices in your Stripe dashboard:

1. Go to [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/products)
2. Click "Add Product"
3. Fill in the product details and add a price
4. Note the Price ID (starts with `price_`) - you'll need this for testing

**Note**: The application will show mock products when Stripe API keys are not configured, allowing you to test the interface without setting up Stripe initially.

### 2. Backend API Endpoints

The backend provides three main endpoints:

- `GET /api/payment/products` - Retrieves products and prices from Stripe (or mock data if not configured)
- `POST /api/payment/create-checkout-session` - Creates a Stripe checkout session
- `POST /api/payment/webhook` - Handles Stripe webhook events

**Environment Configuration**: The backend automatically detects whether Stripe is properly configured and falls back to mock responses for development when API keys are missing.

### 3. Frontend Components

The frontend consists of three main components:

- `PaymentForm` - Displays products and initiates the checkout process
- `SuccessPage` - Displayed after successful payment
- `CancelPage` - Displayed if payment is cancelled

### 4. Payment Flow

1. User selects a product and clicks "Buy Now"
2. Frontend calls the backend to create a checkout session
3. User is redirected to Stripe's hosted checkout page
4. User enters payment details and completes payment
5. Stripe redirects back to success or cancel page
6. Stripe sends a webhook event to confirm payment

## Deployment

### Backend Deployment

To deploy the backend:

```bash
cd backend
<deploy_backend dir="$(pwd)"/>
```

### Frontend Deployment

1. Update the frontend `.env` file with the deployed backend URL:

```
VITE_API_URL=https://your-deployed-backend-url
```

2. Build and deploy the frontend:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
<deploy_frontend dir="dist"/>
```

## Extending the Template

### Adding Subscription Support

To add subscription support:

1. Modify the backend to create subscription-based checkout sessions
2. Update the product data structure to include recurring prices
3. Implement subscription management endpoints

### Adding Marketplace Support

For marketplace functionality:

1. Implement Stripe Connect for onboarding sellers
2. Add commission splitting logic
3. Create seller dashboards and payment reports

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored in environment variables (never commit them to version control)
- Payment information is handled directly by Stripe (never touches your server)
- Webhooks are verified using signatures to prevent tampering

## Resources

- [Stripe Documentation](https://stripe.com/docs)
- [FastAPI Documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [React Documentation](https://reactjs.org/)
